[DOC] Governance update (#615)
ME-ICA/tedana: docs/contributing.rst

.. _contributing guide: https://github.com/ME-ICA/tedana/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

Code of conduct
```````````````

All ``tedana`` community members are expected to follow our code of conduct

> during any interaction with the project. `The full code of conduct is here`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
during any interaction with the project. `The full code of conduct is here`_.
```

That includes---but is not limited to---online conversations,
in-person workshops or development sprints, and when giving talks about the software.

As stated in the code, severe or repeated violations by community members may result in exclusion
from collective decision-making and rejection of future contributions to the ``tedana`` project.

.. _The full code of conduct is here: https://github.com/ME-ICA/tedana/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

Scope of tedana
```````````````
tedana is a collection of tools, software and a community related to echo time
(TE) dependent analyses. The umbrella of tedana covers a number of overlapping,

> but somewhat distinct ideas related to multi-echo analysis. This scope covers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but somewhat distinct ideas related to multi-echo analysis. This scope includes
```

collecting multi-echo data (Acquisition), combining those echoes together
(Combining), with optional noise removal (Denoising), inspecting the outputs
(Visualization) and answering multi-echo related questions (Community). In

> general, preprocessed data is pushed through tedana, producing outputs that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
general, tedana accepts previously preprocessed data to produce outputs that
```

are ready for further analyses. 

Acquisition
-----------

While the development of multi-echo sequences is far beyond the current scope
of tedana, the tedana community is committed to providing guidelines on current
multi-echo implementations. This will include both specific instructions for
how to collect multi-echo data for multiple vendors as well as details about
what types of data have been collected thus far. These details are subject to
change, and are intended to provide users with an idea of what is possible,
rather than definitive recommendations.

Our focus is on functional MRI, including both magnitude and phase data,
however we understand that quantitative mapping has the potential to aid in
data processing. Thus, we believe that some details on non-functional MRI
acquisitions, such as detailed T2* mapping, may fall within the scope of

> tedana. Acquisition related details can be found in the tedana Documentation.

Reviewer 2: We should cross-ref to the specific section, here.

Author: RTD question. https://tedana.readthedocs.io/en/latest/acquisition.html the best link or is there a way to make an internal link that would self-reference the correct location in the documentation?

Reviewer 3: I guess that link's fine given that it's a reference to "Acquisition related details".

Combining echoes
----------------

An early step in processing data collected with multiple echoes is the
combination of the data into a single time series. We currently implement
multiple options to combine multi-echo data and will add more as they continue

> to be developed. This is an area of active development and interest.

Reviewer 2: For "We currently implement multiple options" should we link to the currently supported options ? One idea would be to link the the `fittype` argument in the CLI, specifically [here](https://github.com/ME-ICA/tedana/blob/91b0379e74a25961b2fc7a31875dbc11fb917b2a/tedana/workflows/tedana.py#L80-L91).

Reviewer 2: Somewhat relatedly, in terms of style : it can be helpful if each new sentence is on a new line (for future diffing and for review comments like these). Not worth going through _everything_ now, but if you're updating content anyway, could we move each sentence to its own line ?

Author: Another linking question. If I use the link you suggest, isn't that a permalink to a current version of the code. I could link to `fittype` in https://tedana.readthedocs.io/en/latest/generated/tedana.workflows.t2smap_workflow.html but again I'm not sure if there's a more internal way to make that reference or specifically highlight fit type with the link. @jbteves?

Reviewer: I'm not sure that we want to link to help in governance as a rule. I think that people who want options can easily find them in the help text or docs, though I definitely see the rationale in linking those things when referenced outside of governance. I just think it would be strange for someone to look at governance before help text if they want options.

Reviewer 2: That's fine if we don't want to link ! I'm not tied to the idea, and I think your rationale makes sense @jbteves.

@handwerkerd if we did want to link it would probably go to the function, so something like: `:py:meth:`combine.make_optcom``.

Denoising
---------

> tedana was developed out of a package known as multi-echo ICA (ME-ICA or meica)

Author: ```suggestion
tedana was developed out of a package known as [multi-echo ICA, ME-ICA, or MEICA](https://github.com/ME-ICA/me-ica )
```

> developed by Dr. Prantik Kundu. Though the usage of ICA for classification of

Reviewer 2: We should probably link ME-ICA here. Maybe just https://github.com/ME-ICA/me-ica ? I've archived that repo, so it makes it clear it's no longer being developed.

Reviewer: I think it's fine to just hyperlink the repo, yes.

signal vs noise components has continued in tedana, this is not a rule. The

> tedana community is open and encouraging of new methods, whether or not they

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tedana community is open and encouraging of new denoising methods, whether or not they
```

have a basis in ICA. 

> We are interested in any method that seeks to use the information from multiple

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifically, we are interested in any method that seeks to use the information from multiple
```

echoes to identify signal (defined here as BOLD signals arising from neural

> processing) and noise (defined here as spurious changes unrelated to neural

Reviewer 2: Just since this signal can actually be quite structured :point_down: 

```suggestion
processing) and noise (defined here as changes unrelated to neural
```

processing, i.e. motion, cardiac, respiration).

tedana is primarily intended to work on volume data, that is, data that is
still in structured voxel space. Surface-based denoising is not currently
within the scope of tedana, but code should be written so that it is a

> possible option in the future.

Reviewer 2: Without more explanation, it's a bit confusing why this is in the Denoising section. Might be worth re-framing slightly to highlight this. Maybe I'd add this sentence before "Surface-based denoising":

> This is because several of the denoising metrics currently used rely on spatial continuity, and they -- as of yet -- have not been updated to consider continuity over cortical vertices. Therefore, ...

> Currently tedana works on a single subject, run by run basis however methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently tedana works on a single subject, run by run basis; however, methods
```

that use information across multiple runs are welcome. 

Visualization
-------------

Though tedana does not provide a GUI for inspecting results, it does produce
figures as part of the processing stream. These figures are intended to help
users understand the outputs from tedana and diagnose problems. Though a
comprehensive viewer (such as fsleyes) is outside of the scope of tedana, we

> will continue to improve the figures and add new ones as needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will continue to improve the reports and add new information as needed.
```

Community
---------

tedana is intended to be a community of multi-echo users. The primary resource
is the github repository and related documentation. In addition, the tedana
group will attempt to answer multi-echo related questions on NeuroStars 
(`multi-echo tag <https://neurostars.org/tag/multi-echo>`_ or
`tedana tag <https://neurostars.org/tag/tedana>`_). 

What tedana isn’t
-----------------

While the list of things that do not fall under the scope of tedana are
infinite, it is worth mentioning a few points:

> - tedana will not offer a GUI for usage - it is intended to be either a stand

Reviewer 2: I agree with both of these points (no GUI and either standalone or part of eg afni_proc), but I'm not sure how they fit together ?

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you're asking about here, sorry, could you clarify? I just figured these were both points of clarification on what we're not adding, rather than related points.

Reviewer 2: Sorry for being unclear ! it seems that they're related since they're under the same bullet point. Were they intended as separate bullet points ? That would make more sense to me

Reviewer: Oh! I see. Yes, they're supposed to be separate, my eyes just glossed over that.

Author: ```suggestion
- tedana will not offer a GUI for usage 
- it is intended to be either a stand
```

Reviewer: I think you can go ahead and commit that @handwerkerd

  alone processing package or serve as a processing step as part of a larger
  package (i.e. fmriprep or afni_proc.py). 
- tedana will not provide basic preprocessing steps, such as motion correction
  or slice timing correction. While these were previously part of the ME-ICA
  pipeline, the sheer variety of possible choices, guidelines and data types
  precludes including it within the tedana package.

> - tedana will not provide analyses in the form of general linear models,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- tedana will not provide statistical analyses in the form of general linear models,
```

collecting multi-echo data (Acquisition), combining those echoes together
(Combining), with optional noise removal (Denoising), inspecting the outputs
(Visualization) and answering multi-echo related questions (Community). In
general, tedana accepts previously preprocessed data to produce outputs that
are ready for further analyses. 

Acquisition
-----------

While the development of multi-echo sequences is far beyond the current scope
of tedana, the tedana community is committed to providing guidelines on current
multi-echo implementations. This will include both specific instructions for
how to collect multi-echo data for multiple vendors as well as details about
what types of data have been collected thus far. These details are subject to
change, and are intended to provide users with an idea of what is possible,
rather than definitive recommendations.

Our focus is on functional MRI, including both magnitude and phase data,
however we understand that quantitative mapping has the potential to aid in
data processing. Thus, we believe that some details on non-functional MRI
acquisitions, such as detailed T2* mapping, may fall within the scope of

> tedana. Acquisition related details can be found in the tedana Documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
tedana. [Acquisition related details can be found in the tedana Documentation](https://tedana.readthedocs.io/en/latest/acquisition.html).
```

Combining echoes
----------------

An early step in processing data collected with multiple echoes is the
combination of the data into a single time series. We currently implement
multiple options to combine multi-echo data and will add more as they continue
to be developed. This is an area of active development and interest.

Denoising
---------

tedana was developed out of a package known as [multi-echo ICA, ME-ICA, or MEICA](https://github.com/ME-ICA/me-ica )
developed by Dr. Prantik Kundu. Though the usage of ICA for classification of
signal vs noise components has continued in tedana, this is not a rule. The
tedana community is open and encouraging of new denoising methods, whether or not they
have a basis in ICA. 

Specifically, we are interested in any method that seeks to use the information from multiple
echoes to identify signal (defined here as BOLD signals arising from neural
processing) and noise (defined here as changes unrelated to neural
processing, i.e. motion, cardiac, respiration).

tedana is primarily intended to work on volume data, that is, data that is

> still in structured voxel space. Surface-based denoising is not currently

Author: ```suggestion
still in structured voxel space. This is because several of the current used denoising metrics rely on spatial continuity, and they have not yet been updated to consider continuity over cortical vertices.
Therefore, surface-based denoising is not currently
```

within the scope of tedana, but code should be written so that it is a
possible option in the future.

Currently tedana works on a single subject, run by run basis; however, methods
that use information across multiple runs are welcome. 

Visualization
-------------

Though tedana does not provide a GUI for inspecting results, it does produce

> figures as part of the processing stream. These figures are intended to help

Reviewer 3: We should probably mention the interactive reports that were merged in not so long ago.

> Though tedana does not provide a GUI for inspecting results, it does produce
> figures as part of the processing stream. These figures are intended to help
> users understand the outputs from tedana and diagnose problems. Though a
> comprehensive viewer (such as fsleyes) is outside of the scope of tedana, we

Author: ```suggestion
As part of the processing stream, tedana provides figures and an 
HTML-based GUI for inspecting results. These are intended to help
users understand the outputs from tedana and diagnose problems. Though a
comprehensive viewer (such as fsleyes) is outside of the scope of tedana, we
```

collecting multi-echo data (Acquisition), combining those echoes together
(Combining), with optional noise removal (Denoising), inspecting the outputs
(Visualization) and answering multi-echo related questions (Community). In
general, tedana accepts previously preprocessed data to produce outputs that
are ready for further analyses. 

Acquisition
-----------

While the development of multi-echo sequences is far beyond the current scope
of tedana, the tedana community is committed to providing guidelines on current
multi-echo implementations. This will include both specific instructions for
how to collect multi-echo data for multiple vendors as well as details about
what types of data have been collected thus far. These details are subject to
change, and are intended to provide users with an idea of what is possible,
rather than definitive recommendations.

Our focus is on functional MRI, including both magnitude and phase data,
however we understand that quantitative mapping has the potential to aid in
data processing. Thus, we believe that some details on non-functional MRI
acquisitions, such as detailed T2* mapping, may fall within the scope of

> tedana. `Acquisition related details can be found in the tedana Documentation.`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tedana.
Acquisition related details can be found in the `tedana Documentation.`_
```

> .. _Acquisition related details can be found in the tedana Documentation.: https://tedana.readthedocs.io/en/latest/acquisition.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _tedana Documentation.: https://tedana.readthedocs.io/en/latest/acquisition.html
```

.. _contributing guide: https://github.com/ME-ICA/tedana/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

Code of conduct
```````````````

All ``tedana`` community members are expected to follow our code of conduct
during any interaction with the project. `The full code of conduct is here`_.
That includes---but is not limited to---online conversations,
in-person workshops or development sprints, and when giving talks about the software.

As stated in the code, severe or repeated violations by community members may result in exclusion
from collective decision-making and rejection of future contributions to the ``tedana`` project.

.. _The full code of conduct is here: https://github.com/ME-ICA/tedana/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

Scope of tedana
```````````````
tedana is a collection of tools, software and a community related to echo time
(TE) dependent analyses. The umbrella of tedana covers a number of overlapping,

> but somewhat distinct ideas related to multi-echo analysis. This scope includes

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
but somewhat distinct, ideas related to multi-echo analysis. This scope includes
```

collecting multi-echo data (Acquisition), combining those echoes together
(Combination), with optional noise removal (Denoising), inspecting the outputs
(Visualization) and answering multi-echo related questions (Community). In
general, tedana accepts previously preprocessed data to produce outputs that
are ready for further analyses. 

Acquisition
-----------

> While the development of multi-echo sequences is far beyond the current scope

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the development of multi-echo sequences is beyond the current scope
```

acquisitions, such as detailed T2* mapping, may fall within the scope of
tedana.
Acquisition related details can be found in the `tedana Documentation.`_

.. _tedana Documentation.: https://tedana.readthedocs.io/en/latest/acquisition.html

Combining echoes
----------------

An early step in processing data collected with multiple echoes is the
combination of the data into a single time series. We currently implement
multiple options to combine multi-echo data and will add more as they continue
to be developed. This is an area of active development and interest.

Denoising
---------

tedana was developed out of a package known as `multi-echo ICA, ME-ICA, or MEICA`_
developed by Dr. Prantik Kundu. Though the usage of ICA for classification of
signal vs noise components has continued in tedana, this is not a rule. The
tedana community is open and encouraging of new denoising methods, whether or not they
have a basis in ICA. 

Specifically, we are interested in any method that seeks to use the information from multiple
echoes to identify signal (defined here as BOLD signals arising from neural
processing) and noise (defined here as changes unrelated to neural

> processing, i.e. motion, cardiac, respiration).

Author: ```suggestion
processing, such as motion, cardiac, respiration).
```

tedana is primarily intended to work on volume data, that is, data that is
still in structured voxel space. This is because several of the currently used denoising metrics rely on spatial continuity, and they have not yet been updated to consider continuity over cortical vertices.
Therefore, surface-based denoising is not currently

> within the scope of tedana, but code should be written so that it is a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
within the scope of tedana, but code could be written so that it is a
```

possible option in the future.

Currently tedana works on a single subject, run by run basis; however, methods
that use information across multiple runs are welcome. 

.. _`multi-echo ICA, ME-ICA, or MEICA`: https://github.com/ME-ICA/me-ica

Visualization
-------------

As part of the processing stream, tedana provides figures and an 

> HTML-based GUI for inspecting results. These are intended to help

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HTML-based report for inspecting results. These are intended to help
```
